## `code`
    
Formerly a set of [helper functions](helpers.md), the followings have been attached to the `code` module, which is now preimported.
    
Code can be monkey-patched at runtime using multiple functions, depending on what should be patched and how. Note that some of the functions rely on the [`patchy`](https://github.com/adamchainz/patchy) module.
    
- `add_line`, `add_lines`, `insert_line`, `insert_line`: it allows to add line(s) at specific indices (starting from 0), before or after (using `after=True`).
- `delete_line`, `delete_lines`, `remove_line`, `remove_lines`: it allows to delete line(s) by index (starting from 0).
- `patch`: alias for `patchy.patch`, taking a function and a patch file's text as arguments.
- `replace`: wrapper for `patchy.replace`, handling multiple replacements at a time, either replacing whole function (like in original `replace`) or only parts of the code.
- `replace_lines`: for replacing specific lines in the code of a given function, specifying replacements as pairs of line index (starting from 0) and replacement text.
- `restore`: for restoring a function to its original code.
- `revert`: for reverting code to a previous version (up to 3 previous versions).
- `source`: for getting function's source code (shortcut for `patchy.api._get_source`).
- `unpatch`: alias for `patchy.unpatch`, taking a function and a previous patch file's text as arguments in order to revert the function to its previous version.

A context manager is also available:

- `Patch`: alias for `patchy.temp_patch`, taking a function in argument and a patch ; it patches the function in the context of the open code block and then restores the function at the end of this block.

-----

## `hashlib`
    
`hashlib`, while imported with Tinyscript, is enhanced with additional functions so that these must not be rewritten in many applications, that is:

- `hash_file`: this hashes a file per block.
- `[hash]_file` (e.g. `sha256_file`): each hash algorithm existing in the native `hashlib` has a bound function for hashing a file (e.g. `md5` is a native function of `hashlib` and will then have `md5_file`).

-----

## `inspect`
    
`inspect` has also a few additional functions:

- `getcallermodule`: gets the module object of the caller function.
- `getmainframe`: gets the frame where `__name__` is "`__main__`".
- `getmainglobals`: gets the globals dictionary from the main frame.
- `getmainmodule`: gets the module object from the main frame.
- `getparentframe`: gets the first parent frame in the stack that has the given keyword-values.

-----

## `logging`

`logging` is slightly enhanced with a few things:

- `addLogLevel`: adds a custom log level (with a color).
- `bindLogger`: decorates a function or method to provide a logger (`self.logger` for a method, global `logger` for a function).
- `delLevelName`: deletes a level from the registry by its name or integer.
- `delLogLevel`: deletes a log level, that is, its complete definition.
- `lastLogRecord`: displays the last log record.
- `nullLogger`: a ready-to-use null logger.
- `renameLogger`: renames a logger from an old to a new name.
- `setLogger` / `setLoggers`: sets respectively one or multiple loggers using Tinyscript's logger configuration.
- `unsetLogger` / `unsetLoggers`: unsets respectively one or multiple loggers (removing them from the root `logging` dictionary).
- `InterceptionHandler`: handler that intercepts the last log record.

-----

## `random`

`random` is slightly enhanced with a few new classes:

- `LFSR`: adds an implementation of the Linear-Feedback Shifting Register stream generator, with the possibility of recovering its parameters by setting a target and using the Berlekamp-Massey algorithm.
- `Geffe`: adds an implementation of the Geffe stream generator.

-----

## `re`

`re` is enhanced with some new functions to generate strings from regular expression patterns:

- `randstr`: generates a single random string from the input regex
- `randstrs`: provides a generator of strings from the input regex

!!! note "Performance"
    
    If a pattern uses categories of characters and/or star/plus repeat, strings generation can become cumbersome especially if subpatterns are used. As `randstrs` relies on `itertools.product`, it must generate the lists of possible substrings from subpatterns before composing strings from the main pattern. So, in order to tune performance, it is possible to use some parameters:
    
    - `n` (default: 100): this limits the maximum number of strings to be generated
    - `star_plus_max` (default: 10): this limits the maximum repeat number while using "`*`" or "`+`"
    - `generate_max` (default: 20): this limits the maximum number of items generated by a group (e.g. "`[a-f]{1,8}`" will generate 20 elements while the full range should have 6^8=1.679.616 elements)
    
    In the case of `randstr`, `yield_max=1` and a good performance is achieved because character (e.g. `\d` giving `0123456789`) or item sets (e.g. `(item1|...|itemN)`) are reduced (with randomization) to length 1 while parsing the regex.

-----

## `string`

`random` is slightly enhanced with a new function:

- `shorten`: shortens a string, taking by default the terminal width, otherwise a length of 40 characters (unless user-defined), and using an end token (by default "`...`").


## `virtualenv`

`virtualenv`, while imported with Tinyscript, is enhanced with convenient functions for setting up a virtual environment.

- `activate(venv_dir)`: sets environment variables and globals as of `bin/activate_this.py` in order to activate the given environment.
- `deactivate()`: unsets the current environment variables and globals.
- `install(package, ...)`: uses Pip to install the given package ; "`...`" corresponds to the arguments and keyword-arguments that can be passed to Pip.
- `is_installed(package)`: indicates if the given package is installed in the environment.
- `list_packages()`: lists the packages installed in the environment.
- `setup(venv_dir, requirements)`: sets up a virtual environment to the given directory and installs the given requirements (either a requirements file or a list of packages).
- `teardown(venv_dir)`: deactivates and removes the given environment ; if no directory given, the currently defined one is handled.

